README.md, before:

# filament-schema
draft Pkl schema to potentially be used by Galaxy's Filament project

## Structure
The project structure is something like this:

```ini
.
 ┣ .github
 ┃ ┗ workflows
 ┃   ┗ pkl-test.yaml
 ┣ examples
 ┃ ┗ Organism.pkl                   # some example Organism config
 ┣ src
 ┃ ┣ Core.pkl                       # a module of things shared across other modules
 ┃ ┣ Organism.pkl                   # a module for defining Organisms and their attributes
 ┃ ┗ Workflow.pkl                  # a module for defining Galaxy IWC Workflows and their attributes
 ┣ tests
 ┃ ┣ Organism.pkl                   # tests of the Organism Module AND its examples
 ┃ ┗ Organism.pkl-expected.pcf      # snapshot of generated Organism examples
 ┣ Dockerfile                       # a container for development/ local testing
 ┗ README.md
```

## Development
A Dockerfile included for ease and consistency of development. Dev workflow is like this:

From the main directory:

```
docker build -t filament-schema:dev .
docker run --rm -v .:/home/dev -it filament-schema:dev
```

This should build an image for you and then start an interactive session with any local files
available under /home/dev. From here you should be able to do things like `pkl -v` and get 
meaningful output, as a test the container is working. The goal is to allow a dev to use this 
container to run tests like `pkl test tests/Oranism.pkl` before pushing their changes, etc.

*NOTE:* There is a VS Code Extension available. See [here](https://pkl-lang.org/vscode/current/installation.html).

Commit message:

add example of generating json to readme

README.md, after:

# filament-schema
draft Pkl schema to potentially be used by Galaxy's Filament project

## Structure
The project structure is something like this:

```ini
.
 ┣ .github
 ┃ ┗ workflows
 ┃   ┗ pkl-test.yaml
 ┣ examples
 ┃ ┗ Organism.pkl                   # some example Organism config
 ┣ src
 ┃ ┣ Core.pkl                       # a module of things shared across other modules
 ┃ ┣ Organism.pkl                   # a module for defining Organisms and their attributes
 ┃ ┗ Workflow.pkl                  # a module for defining Galaxy IWC Workflows and their attributes
 ┣ tests
 ┃ ┣ Organism.pkl                   # tests of the Organism Module AND its examples
 ┃ ┗ Organism.pkl-expected.pcf      # snapshot of generated Organism examples
 ┣ Dockerfile                       # a container for development/ local testing
 ┗ README.md
```

## Development
A Dockerfile included for ease and consistency of development. Dev workflow is like this:

From the main directory:

```
docker build -t filament-schema:dev .
docker run --rm -v .:/home/dev -it filament-schema:dev
```

This should build an image for you and then start an interactive session with any local files
available under /home/dev. From here you should be able to do things like `pkl -v` and get 
meaningful output, as a test the container is working. The goal is to allow a dev to use this 
container to run tests like `pkl test tests/Oranism.pkl` before pushing their changes, etc.

To see an example output JSON file, you can do something like `pkl eval -f json examples/Workflow.pkl`
from `home/dev/` within the interactive development container.

*NOTE:* There is a VS Code Extension available. See [here](https://pkl-lang.org/vscode/current/installation.html).
